0. What a blessing is was thought about by gods and men for twelve (years),
but they did not attain (true) safety; the thirty-eight blessings
which were preached by the god of gods make all that is bad perish.
For the whole world’s benefit and welfare we will recite that blessed safeguard.

Thus I have heard:
at one time the Fortunate One was dwelling near Sāvatthi
at Anāthapiṇḍika’s grounds in Jeta’s Wood.
Then a certain god, towards the end of the night,
whose surpassing beauty lit up the whole of Jeta’s Wood,
approached the Fortunate One,
and after approaching and worshipping the Fortunate One, he stood on one side.
While standing on one side that god addressed the Fortunate One with a verse:

1. "Many deities and men longing for happiness have pondered on (the question of) blessings. Pray tell me what the highest blessings are.

2. "Not to associate with the foolish, but to associate with the wise, and to honor those worthy of honor — this is the highest blessing.

3. "To reside in a suitable locality, to have performed meritorious actions in the past, and to set oneself in the right direction — this is the highest blessing.

4. "Vast learning, skill in handicrafts, well grounded in discipline, and pleasant speech — this is the highest blessing.

5. "To support one's father and mother; to cherish one's wife and children, and to be engaged in peaceful occupations — this is the highest blessing.

6. "Liberality, righteous conduct, rendering assistance to relatives, and performance of blameless deeds — this is the highest blessing.

7. "To cease and abstain from evil, to abstain from intoxicating drinks, and diligent in performing righteous acts — this is the highest blessing.

8. "Reverence, humility, contentment, gratitude, and the timely hearing of the Dhamma, the teaching of the Buddha — this is the highest blessing.

9. "Patience, obedience, meeting the Samanas (holy men), and timely discussions on the Dhamma — this is the highest blessing.

10. "Self-control, chastity, comprehension of the Noble Truths, and the realization of Nibbana — this is the highest blessing.

11. "The mind that is not touched by the vicissitudes of life,[2] the mind that is free from sorrow, stainless, and secure — this is the highest blessing.

12. "Those who have fulfilled the conditions (for such blessings) are victorious everywhere, and attain happiness everywhere — To them these are the highest blessings."