0. Beginning with the aspiration (for Buddhahood, and thinking of) the Realised One’s ten perfections,
ten minor perfections, ten great perfections - altogether thirty perfections,
his five great sacrifices, life of benefitting the world, life of benefitting his relatives, life of benefitting (by becoming) Buddha,
life of benefitting his relatives, life of benefitting (by becoming) Buddha,
three ways of conduct, descent into the womb for his final existence, birth,
great renunciation, life of effort, sitting cross legged at the Bodhi tree,
victory over Māra, turning of the Wheel of Dhamma,
his penetration and knowledge of omniscience, and his nine supermundane attainments,
and after considering all these Buddha qualities, (going around) the three walls of Vesāli,
during the three watches of the night, the venerable elder Ānanda,
after establishing great compassion in his heart, made this safeguard:

The gods in the ten hundred thousand million universes
accepted the order (given) in the city of Vesāli,
and disease, non-human beings, and famine, the threefold fear that had arisen,
quickly disappeared, we will recite that safeguard:

1. Whatever beings (non-humans) are assembled here, terrestrial or celestial, may they all have peace of mind, and may they listen attentively to these words.

2. O beings, listen closely. May you all radiate loving-kindness to those human beings who, by day and night, bring offerings to you (offer merit to you). Wherefore, protect them with diligence.

3. Whatever treasure there be either in the world beyond, whatever precious jewel there be in the heavenly worlds, there is nought comparable to the Tathagata (the perfect One). This precious jewel is the Buddha.[4] By this (asseveration of the) truth may there be happiness.

4. That Cessation, that Detachment, that Deathlessness (Nibbana) supreme, the calm and collected Sakyan Sage (the Buddha) had realized. There is nought comparable to this (Nibbana) Dhamma. This precious jewel is the Dhamma.[5] By this (asseveration of the) truth may there be happiness.

5. The Supreme Buddha extolled a path of purity (the Noble Eightfold Path) calling it the path which unfailingly brings concentration. There is nought comparable to this concentration. This precious jewel is the Dhamma. By this (asseveration of the) truth may there be happiness.

6. The eight persons extolled by virtuous men constitute four pairs. They are the disciples of the Buddha and are worthy of offerings. Gifts given to them yield rich results. This precious jewel is the Sangha.[6] By this (asseveration of the) truth may there be happiness.

7. With a steadfast mind, and applying themselves well in the dispensation of the Buddha Gotama, free from (defilements), they have attained to that which should be attained (arahantship) encountering the Deathless. They enjoy the Peace of Nibbana freely obtained.[7] This precious jewel is the Sangha. By this (asseveration of the) truth may there be happiness.

8. As a post deep-planted in the earth stands unshaken by the winds from the four quarters, so, too, I declare is the righteous man who comprehends with wisdom the Noble Truths. This precious jewel is the Sangha. By this (asseveration of the) truth may there be happiness.

9. Those who realized the Noble Truths well taught by him who is profound in wisdom (the Buddha), even though they may be exceedingly heedless, they will not take an eighth existence (in the realm of sense spheres).[8] This precious jewel is the Sangha. By this (asseveration of the) truth may there be happiness.

10. With his gaining of insight he abandons three states of mind, namely self-illusion, doubt, and indulgence in meaningless rites and rituals, should there be any. He is also fully freed from the four states of woe, and therefore, incapable of committing the six major wrongdoings.[9] This precious jewel is the Sangha. By this (asseveration of the) truth may there be happiness.

11. Any evil action he may still do by deed, word or thought, he is incapable of concealing it; since it has been proclaimed that such concealing is impossible for one who has seen the Path (of Nibbana).[10] This precious jewel is the Sangha. By this (asseveration of the) truth may there be happiness.

12. As the woodland groves though in the early heat of the summer month are crowned with blossoming flowers even so is the sublime Dhamma leading to the (calm) of Nibbana which is taught (by the Buddha) for the highest good. This precious jewel is the Buddha. By this (asseveration of the) truth may there be happiness.

13. The Peerless Excellent one (the Buddha) the Knower (of Nibbana), the Giver (of Nibbana), the Bringer (of the Noble Path), taught the excellent Dhamma. This precious jewel is the Buddha. By this (asseveration of the) truth may there be happiness.

14. Their past (kamma) is spent, their new (kamma) no more arises, their mind to future becoming is unattached. Their germ (of rebirth-consciousness) has died, they have no more desire for re-living. Those wise men fade out (of existence) as the flame of this lamp (which has just faded away). This precious jewel is the Sangha. By this (asseveration of the) truth may there be happiness.

15. Whatever beings are assembled here, terrestrial or celestial, come let us salute the Buddha, the Tathagata, honored by gods and men. May there be happiness.

16. Whatever beings are assembled here terrestrial or celestial, come let us salute the perfect Dhamma, honored by gods and men. May there be happiness.

217. Whatever beings are assembled here terrestrial or celestial, come let us salute the perfect Sangha, honored by gods and men. May there be happiness.