0. By the recollection of that (safeguard) living creatures in the firmament
obtain complete support, just like (living creatures) everywhere on earth.

From the net of all adversity arising from yakkhas, thieves, and rivals,
those who were released cannot be numbered, we will recite that safeguard.

1. Thus I have heard:
at one time the Fortunate One was dwelling near Sāvatthi
at Anāthapiṇḍika’s grounds in Jeta’s Wood.

2. There it was that the Fortunate One addressed the monks, saying:
“Monks!”, “Reverend Sir!” those monks replied to the Fortunate One,
and the Fortunate One said this:

“Formerly, monks, there was a massed battle between the gods and the asuras.
Then, monks, the lord of the gods Sakka addressed the Tāvatiṁsa gods, saying:

“If, dear Sirs, to the gods who have gone into battle
there should arise fear, or terror, or horror,
at that time you could look for the top of my banner.

For to those who look to the top of my banner
whatever fear there may be, or terror, 
or horror, will be given up.

3. If you cannot look to the top of the god-king Pajāpati’s banner,
then you could look for the top of the god-king Varuṇa’s banner.

For to those who look to the top of the god-king Varuṇa’s banner
whatever fear there may be, or terror, or horror, will be given up.

4. If you cannot look to the top of the god-king Varuṇa’s banner,
then you could look for the top of the god-king Īsāna’s banner.

For to those who look to the top of the god-king Īsāna’s banner
whatever fear there may be, or terror, or horror, will be given up.

5. But, monks,
to he who looks to the top of the lord of the gods Sakka’s banner,
or who looks to the top of the god-king Pajāpati’s banner,
or who looks to the top of the god-king Varuṇa’s banner,

or who looks to the top of the god-king Īsāna’s banner,
whatever fear there may be, or terror, or horror,
may be given up, and may not be given up.

6. What is the reason for that?
The lord of the gods Sakka, monks,
being fearful, terrified, scared, he ran away. 
Is not free from passion, is not free from hatred, is not free from delusion.



7. But I say this, monks:
If to you, monks, after going to the wilderness,
or to the root of a tree, or to an empty place,
there should arise fear, or terror, or horror,
at that time you could recollect me thus: